you know if you're a conservative
Republican if I were a liberal if like
okay that's why I always sort of went to
Wharton was a good student went there
went there did this built the for you
know I have to give my like credentials
all the time cuz we're a little
disadvantage but you look at the nuclear
jump we had our beautiful marine
standing there we remember in 2015 and
2016 when we used to be shocked amazed
even by incoherent meandering almost
incomprehensible speeches by then
candidate Donald Trump well it is now
2017 and grammatically incorrect
sentences and hard to follow monologues
are a daily national occurrence but this
week with Trump giving an interview to
the paper he loves to hate the New York
Times
we got bombshells the president slamming
his own Attorney General threatening a
special prosecutor and dismissing his
dinner chat with Vladimir Putin and we
also got more examples of his bizarre
word usage like this comment on health
care we have some meetings scheduled
today I think we have six people who are
really sort of okay they're all good
people
we don't have bad people I know the bad
people believe me do I know bad people
sounds about health care and with me
Howard to help me translate Donald Trump
for our viewers actor award-winning
fabulous actor Ron Perlman author of the
memoir Easy Street the hard way and
Columbia University linguistics
professor and my personal favorite
linguistics professor John McWhorter
author of words on the move okay this is
like a dream panel for me because I I
you know maybe maybe it is elitism and
I'll start with you on this John
McWhorter to be weirded out by kind of
the way done from speaks but it does
strike me that when I try to read what
he's saying it's very hard to understand
it in print
yes yeah right yeah it's partly that the
way he talks is very oral and so it's
not designed to be read it's not
something anybody would write right and
the truth is I mean as disgusted by him
in many ways as I am the truth is that a
lot of us sound a lot more like in than
we would think even on TV shows like
this context means a lot he's not a
careful speaker he
just an ordinary barstool speaker and
and maybe that's why because as an actor
you know Ron you're called upon to you
know step outside of who you are and
become someone else right have you ever
encountered a character like Donald
Trump
this is him talking New York Times you
know I'm gonna read one more I love you
read it I think I should have you read
it reading this one number three we're
gonna let you take advantage of your of
your word stylings if you have your
glasses on I do not have much you don't
already to you I've had the best reviews
on foreign land so I go to Poland and
make a speech enemies of mine in the
media enemies of mine are saying it was
the greatest speech ever made on foreign
soil by a president I'm saying man they
cover garbled you saw the interviews I
got on that speech their music got on
that speech Poland was beautiful and
wonderful the reception was incredible
like he sound he doesn't talk to present
he sounds like a tourist
I just wish more of it would garbled it
was all because it's like zero coherence
to any of it no yeah but is he an
everyman or is he an elite any leap man
I mean this guy he brags that he went to
the best schools
he went to elite schools went to a
private military school what if you were
playing golf Trump would you be playing
an elite man or an everyman okay so I
don't know if you know this but I just I
had this trip to France I was just there
with the head guy what's his name
Emmanuel macron Alphonso macaron
narrowly beat narrowly beat lepen I
think she won I think she won I think
she won I don't mean look you know know
it's who knows anyway McCrone great guy
great guy never knew he was a great guy
that's French never knew was a great
he's a very hot white very white we're
talking we're talking and you know I all
my properties I have this desert it's
called it's called VA Claire it's called
the Eclair it's phenomenal it has
everything that it's like Wang it's a
little you know the shape of it is very
very you know what I'm saying
and so and it has this chocolate on the
top and then there's something in the
middle of it I don't know what it is but
it's joy I don't know if you know this
but anyway I'm talking with my new
friend Alfonso Mike from and and Alfonso
says to me the Eclair
via Claire and I didn't realize this but
we have Napoleon to thank for the a
clear that's it the Eclair is named
after I am running in 2020 obviously
very enticing to a lot of people there
was recently a Quinnipiac poll John a
Quinnipiac poll
there's Trump level-headed nah 28 65
percent say absolutely not
is Trump honest nah man 59% say he is
not honest but is Trump intelligent yep
57% say he seems intelligent to me well
he would be a very intelligent villager
somewhere living with about 200 people
20,000 years ago where everything is all
about him and subjective impressions
because there's no such thing as writing
or history or science yet and so
Napoleon design the streets of Paris
rather than it being his nephew and
maybe it was this and maybe it was that
maybe Watergate had something to do with
breaking into the DNC but it's all just
hearsay all of that makes perfect sense
if you live in a village and you're
sitting in short pants about 20,000
years ago before there was such a thing
as writing and print and science and
establishing things in black and white
he's he's a he might be quite
intelligent but he would have to be a
highly intelligent pre Neolithic
villager he's tragically unadorned by
the way there was an actual guy I don't
know if you know this I just learned
this job and I guess it's kind of an
elitist thing to love you know I get mad
when people say following guests when I
go and I really do hate it when people
say following guest by the way it's next
yes but I mean those things drive me
crazy but out in the world out in
America it is seen as extremely elitist
to care about that right Donald Trump
speaking the way he does and sort of
being very kind of ordinary in the way
he is is part of the reason that a lot
of people particularly conservatives
like him
helped get him elected it makes him seem
authentic and as far as I'm concerned
casual speech in itself is a lot of fun
to listen to listening to somebody who
talks like Trump in a way I think isn't
it meet how will all of those holes and
non sequiturs you know what a person
means that's something right with
studies president he's saying important
things he's supposed to be making sense
you're supposed to wear a suit when
you're on TV yeah he doesn't wear his
linguistic suit he doesn't use his
linguistic deodorant that's the problem
that's a good one I want to play one
more clip and this is Donald Trump and I
think this interview is actually even a
little bit more insane there was
founding just really interesting
sounding than the New York Times
interview this is Time magazine Donald
Trump saying that he's a very stable
person this is what he said he said I'm
a very stable person I'm so stable you
wouldn't believe it we need a strong
tone in a compassionate tone I could do
both plus what's up here he's at
pointing to his temple I think
temperament is my strength my greatest
strength I'm not a fast trigger I'm the
opposite of a fast trigger but nobody's
gonna push us around I think my ideas
are really good so it's like the other
thing he does is he mashes it as you
brilliantly did Ron lots of different
ideas that don't have to do with the
question into what he is saying have we
did we just get too accustomed to
presidents who speak formally and speak
well not only Barack Obama but go all
the way back if you listen to FDR speak
it's a very formal way of speaking it's
a very erudite way of speaking
Kennedy very area that even Ronald
Reagan his performative sort of
presidency was very official even GW
tried he tried
Georgia B she tried and sometimes
bumbled because his like he was making
an effort who's trying the formal
presidency is it over no it's just
temporarily on pause yeah and I I mean I
thank God that there's a standard that
is being is under siege it's under
assault and you know it's it's it's it's
inevitable that that this this he has
exposed something that is unacceptable
yeah in in terms of the comportment
of this isn't this is an incredibly
distinguished position yeah this is a
position that affects not just everyone
in the United States but everybody on
the planet
and we are being held hostage by
somebody who has no core somebody who
has no center somebody who has who just
you know will say anything to to
generate a response that's reverse
engineering that's not what a leader is
supposed to do yeah and there's a reason
why we've had 44 others and now him
doesn't resemble any of the other 44 and
there's a reason why hopefully in my
lifetime and my children's lifetime
we'll never see anything like this again
you know we've been talking a lot about
Richard Nixon you know in this recent
sort of moment and I am struck whenever
I listen to Richard Nixon how even he
sounds like a man attempting to speak
with an honor and something to sort of
hold himself up in an honorable way the
way he speaks it's also very formal like
a president he was a cloth coat guy and
I wonder if because as Ron said it's one
guy out of 312 million people
he's our one avatar what happened to
that need to have that person be a big
grand yeah it's interesting
Nixon was similar to Trump in many ways
that have been discussed but he came
before a certain time so even though he
had a resentment of the elites he had a
sense that to present himself to make a
case to the elites he had to at least
try to speak well and he learned to do
it he was actually a good speech maker
off-the-cuff he could actually speak
quite fluently the modern Nixon doesn't
feel that way because we became so much
more informal after the late 60s and I
think that was good in many ways but it
does mean that we now have an electorate
who don't care about the fact that the
president can't rub a noun and a verb
together it just doesn't matter to them
and in fact if he were more smoothly
articulate for many of them I think that
it would make him seem less presidential
less appropriate and the fact is that
when you point this sort of thing out in
my experience these days you're often
accused of being smug yeah things have
changed I don't know if that's gonna
change the articulate president is no
longer necessary yeah and it's sad
because even George will be Bush was the
son of a president felt that he had to
pretend to be a rancher
rather than a formal as part of Yale
educated elite very wealthy man he sort
of came across in his own mind he wanted
to seem like just a guy having hamburger
yeah and yet he had to make a speech
when it was time and this person feels
no need no need to do it thank you so
much this was a lot of fun Columbia
University professor and Daily Beast
contributor John McWhorter right there -
I love The Daily Beast and Ron Perlman
great actor who you can catch in the
premiere episode of startup which is
streaming starting September 28th on
crackle do not miss it we love Ron
Perlman and coming up at noon former
federal prosecutor
Samuel Buell joins my pal Alex wit my
girl to talk about pardons see how
informal we are and in our next hour
here on am joy we take you to earth -
and we flip this house it's all coming
back don't go anywhere
hey there I'm Chris Hayes from MSNBC
thanks for watching MSNBC on YouTube if
you want to keep up to date with the
videos we're putting out you can click
subscribe just below me or click over on
this list to see lots of other great
videos